docs(TF-405): managing the stores (#7391)
vuestorefront/vue-storefront: docs/content/guides/6.multistore/2.tooling-and-concepts/3.development/3.managing-the-stores.md

# Development - Managing the stores

> Welcome to the store management guide! This comprehensive guide will show you how to efficiently manage stores in your Alokai multistore project. Whether you're creating new stores, reorganizing your store hierarchy, or handling store configurations, you'll find everything you need to work effectively with the Alokai CLI.

Author: I didn't watch it :( but anyway I will make it less friendly hahah

> Welcome to the store management guide! This comprehensive guide will show you how to efficiently manage stores in your Alokai multistore project. Whether you're creating new stores, reorganizing your store hierarchy, or handling store configurations, you'll find everything you need to work effectively with the Alokai CLI.

Author: ok, so I've shortened the introduction, to not duplicate the content of what you'll learn and why this matters https://github.com/vuestorefront/vue-storefront/pull/7391/commits/962ff03a329d70e6a656b939a170acd63f9e0875

**Why This Matters**

Managing stores effectively is crucial when working with multiple brands or regions. The Alokai CLI helps you:
- Create new stores with proper configuration and inheritance
- Keep your codebase organized as you add more stores
- Move stores between different parents without breaking dependencies
- Maintain proper configuration as your project grows

**What You'll Learn**

::list{type="success"}
- How to create new stores using the CLI
- Understanding and modifying store configurations
- Moving stores within your project hierarchy
- Safely removing stores and handling cleanup

> ::

Author: Updated https://github.com/vuestorefront/vue-storefront/pull/7391/commits/68db1e1fd0be7d5ee84e9d1368c78e4e5ec1c6c2

Let's explore how to manage your stores effectively.

## Adding a New Store

The `store add` command guides you through creating a new store and sets up all necessary configurations:

```bash
yarn store add
```

### Store Creation Flow

The CLI will ask several questions to configure your store:

1. **Store ID**
   - Unique identifier for your store
   - Used in `alokai.config.json`, `turbo.json`, and store directory
   - Example: `my-brand-us`

2. **Parent Store**
   - Choose if this store inherits from existing store
   - Or choose root to inherit from base apps

3. **Store Type**
   - Choose if store should be deployable or not. Inheritance-only stores are not deployable.

> 4. **Console Project** (for direct stores only)

Author: Done :) https://github.com/vuestorefront/vue-storefront/pull/7391/commits/d92d0828b3c1a1dd00f083e001171a0a61cb73b0

2. **Frontend Build** (`storefront-unified-nextjs-my-brand-us#build`)
   - Waits for middleware to build (needs its types)
   - Builds the Next.js application
   - Caches the `.next` output (except cache directory)

3. **Integration Tests** (`playwright-my-brand-us#test:integration:ui`)
   - Not cached as tests should run fresh each time

:::tip
You can find more information about the tasks in the [Turbo documentation](https://turbo.build/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/configuring-tasks#getting-started).
:::

### Generated Store Structure

The CLI creates this directory structure for your store:
```bash
apps/stores/my-brand-us/
├── storefront-unified-nextjs/    # Next.js app overrides
├── storefront-unified-nuxt/      # Nuxt app overrides
└── storefront-middleware/        # Middleware overrides
└── playwright/                   # Playwright tests
```

## Moving Stores

The `store move` command helps reorganize your store hierarchy:

```bash
yarn store move
```

### Move Process

1. **Select the store to move**

2. **Choose the new parent:**
- Choose one of the existing stores as the new parent
- Or choose root to inherit from base apps

> 

Author: Updated 
![CleanShot 2025-02-13 at 18 53 58@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/abfe9982-ce0c-4376-8b53-a484891da295)

# Development - Managing the stores

This guide covers the core operations for managing stores in Alokai multistore projects through the Alokai CLI.

**What You'll Learn**

::list{type="success"}
- How to create new stores using the CLI
- Understanding and modifying store configurations
- Moving stores within your project hierarchy
- Safely removing stores and handling cleanup
::

**Why This Matters**

> 
> When working with multiple brands or regions, effective store management is essential for maintaining a scalable and organized codebase. The Alokai CLI provides the tools you need to create, configure, and manage stores while keeping your codebase clean and structured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

When working with multiple brands and regions, keeping clean and maintainable repository is one of the most important characteristics that ensure you can keep releasing fast and with a high confidence. The Alokai CLI provides the tools you need to create, configure, and manage stores while keeping your codebase clean and structured.
```

Let's explore how to manage your stores effectively.

## Adding a New Store

The `store add` command guides you through creating a new store and sets up all necessary configurations:

```bash
yarn store add
```

> ### Store Creation Flow

Author: Added 
![CleanShot 2025-02-17 at 21 26 59@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/18e12885-d0d0-46c8-af3c-3a9b8e9d9424)

3. **Store Type**
   - Choose if store should be deployable or not. Template stores are not deployable.

4. **Console Project** (for deployable stores only)
   - The project name in Alokai Console
   - If you're not sure, just skip it for now
   - Can be updated later in `alokai.config.json`

5. **Cloud Region** (for deployable stores only)
   - Deployment region for your store
   - If you're not sure, just skip it for now
   - Can be updated later in `alokai.config.json`

### What the Command Does

When you create a new store, the CLI:

1. **Updates Configuration Files**
   - Creates app-specific config files (`.prettierrc.mjs`, `eslint.config.mjs`, etc.)
   - For deployable stores:
     - Adds store entry to `alokai.config.json`
     - Updates `turbo.json` with build tasks and dependencies

2. **Creates Store Directory Structure**
   - Sets up store directory with all required apps

#### `alokai.config.json` Updates

For deployable stores, the CLI adds a new entry with default settings. All of these settings can be modified at any time:

```json
{
  "$schema": "./.alokai/alokaiConfigSchema.json",
  "stores": {
    "my-brand-us": {
      "deployment": {

>         "frontend": "nextjs",         // Which frontend to deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "frontend": "nextjs",         // Which frontend to deploy
```

not clear to me what does it mean. Is it a frontend framework? If that's the case it should be called `framework`, if its something else, specify what it is in the comment

Author: ok, I've created a task in the backlog https://alokai.atlassian.net/browse/TF-436
